Israel has called on Russia to protect
its citizens and Jews after mob storm
the main airport in Russia's dagistan
region following the arrival of a plane
from Israel as many as 20 people were
injured in the riot at the facility in
the city of mahakala at least 60 people
were temporarily detained the airport
has now
reopened a huge crowd overwhelms the
airport of makka
voicing their support for Palestinians
enchanting anti-semitic
slogans videos posted on social media
show how the mob broke through doors and
barriers with staff members trying to
deter
them some made their way to the
runway they were reportedly looking for
Israeli citizens after a plane arrived
from Israel authorities closed the
airport and security forces were
deployed at the site
Dagan's religious leader has called for
calm this issue cannot be resolved in
this way we will talk with the relevant
people and will continue to try to
resolve the issue differently not with
emotions not with rallies in an
appropriate
way after the incident in makach kala
Israel called on Russia to protect its
citizens
for more on this our chief Russia
correspondent Yuri retto joins us now
he's in the lvan capital Ria where DW's
been reporting from since being banned
from Russia for our critical reporting
uh Yuri what's the response been to the
dramatic event we saw last
night well for many what happened in
dagistan Michael tonight came as a shock
and that is of course uh not in dagistan
itself but in dagistan I spoke to some
people from dagistan who said very
clearly that this Angry Crowd last night
wasn't representative of the entire
Republic but at the same time they said
that certain anti-semitic Tendencies are
nevertheless very clear in dagistan as
well as as as everywhere in Russia
nowadays so the result of last day night
is 60 people were arrested 20 people
were injured two of them very seriously
and the investigative committee has
launched an investigation and I think uh
the reaction of the authorities will be
very harsh in Russia uh because any form
of protest has been suppressed from the
start in Russia and the protesters now
face up to 15 years in prison and as for
the situation of the passengers uh from
the plane from Israel they all seem to
be safe according to the media makach
kalala airport is reopened you mentioned
it uh even though some shops uh uh there
were looted at night however the flights
to mahaj kalala were re indirected uh to
other airports Yuri do we need any more
context here do we need to understand
anything more about the
region yes dagistan is known for the
peaceful coexistence of many cultures
and different religions but as in many
regions of the Caucasus Trends towards
radicalization can be seen there as well
because one thing is clear what happened
yesterday at the airport inah kala
wasn't the only anti-semitic act in the
capital of cabardino balaria nalic the
Jewish center that is currently being
built was set on fire in dagistan itself
and they before the airport was stormed
a hotel was stormed where refugees from
Israel was suspected in the end a note
was hung at the entrance with the words
there are no Jews here uh the reason for
this aggression is clear um it's the
general situation in the region poverty
unemployment lack of prospects personal
and social problems which all find an
outlet in the street violence in
addition the fact that protests are
almost impossible in Russia only make
people's anger even worse nevertheless
Michael there there is no reason to fear
that these anti-semitic protests will
spread throughout Russia experts say
2third of Russians consider this
conflict to be too far away and to want
nothing to do with it only half a minute
Yuri but I do want to ask you this
violence came as a shock to Jews around
the world particularly in Israel which
has maintained close relations with
Russia what response can we expect from
the
Kremlin while the kemin has already
reacted Putin spokes span piskov called
this outbreak of violence tried from
outside he didn't specify by whom
exactly he spoke only of a certain
external interference in Russia's
Internal Affairs the head of dagistan
mikov became clear here in his opinion
it was the ukrainians who run the
telegram channel from which calls for
violence were made this is also a very
typical reaction in Russia to blame
Ukraine and to point uh the finger
firmly at the West you Shadow many many
thanks as
always